---
layout: post
title: "The Millionaire Fastlane: Crack the Code to Wealth and Live Rich for a Lifetime - by DeMarco, MJ"
---

ISBN: 978-0984358106, READ: 2018-01-31, RATING: 9/10

<!--summary-->
If you had dreams of becoming an Entrepreneur during your college days, and some how life made you live a mediocrity, then you should read this book to stir your passion back.

<!--more-->

See [__Amazon Page__](http://amzn.to/2nsxJDU) for details and reviews.

## Key Lessons
* Slowlane and sidewalkers use mutual fund to __get rich__, but rich people use it to __stay rich__. If you plan to become wealthy involves __"investing"__ in things like mutual fund, PPF, Fixed deposit.. forget it. You want to have a million dollars when you have knee, hip and kidney problems? __Now__ is the time to get rich.

* And that is by creating businesses that don't trade time for money. Use computers and internet to your full advantage.

* Most important thing for me was: __Switch your allegiance from Consumers to Producers__. The only way to make lots of money is by creating value for others. In a job, you only get to create value for your boss. But to become wealthy, you need to create value for a lot of people. Your impact should be higher.

* Become more valuable.

## My Notes
To celebrate my Fastlane success, I bought one of these legendary beasts, a Lamborghini Diablo. If you’ve never had the opportunity to drive a car that costs more than most people’s homes, let me tell you how it works: You can’t be shy. People chase you in traffic. They tailgate you, rubberneck, and cause accidents. Getting gas is an event: people snap photos, enraged environmentalists give you the evil eye, and haters insinuate about the length of your penis—as if owning a Hyundai implies being well endowed.

If you want to keep getting what you’re getting, keep doing what you’re doing. The translation? STOP!

I made my first million when I was 31. Five years earlier, I was living with my mother. I retired when I was 37. Every month I earn thousands of dollars in interest and appreciation on investments working around the globe. No matter what I do on any day, one thing is sure: I get paid and I do not have to work.

How about your dreams? Do they need resuscitation? Is your life on a road that converges with a dream, or is one? If your dreams have lost probability it’s possible “Get Rich Slow” has killed them. “Get Rich Slow” criminally asks you to trade your freedom for freedom.

We know that people who get rich young fall into a unique subset of society: pro athletes, rappers, actors, entertainers, and famous people.

It’s called “Get Rich Slow” and sounds something like this: Go to school, get good grades, graduate, get a good job, invest in the stock market, max-out your 401(k), cut up your credit cards, and clip coupons . . . then someday, when you are, oh, 65 years old, you will be rich.

The message of “Get Rich Slow” is clear: Sacrifice your today, your dreams, and your life for a plan that pays dividends after most of your life has evaporated. Let me be blunt: If your road to wealth devours your active adult life and it isn't guaranteed, that road sucks

The Slowlane prognosticators know something that they aren’t telling you: What they teach doesn’t work, but selling it does.

“Get Rich Slow” takes a lifetime to travel and its success is nefariously dependent on too many factors you cannot control.

The real golden years of life are when you’re young, sentient, and vibrant.

College was a five-year prenatal employee brainwashing with graduation as the overrated climax. I viewed college as indoctrination into corporate droneship;

While I was happy for them, my friends bought the lie that I later define as “The Slowlane.” Me? Thanks but no thanks. I sought to avoid the Slowlane like a medieval plague. My idea was to find the Fastlane, retire rich, and retire young.

Meanwhile, my friends progressed in their careers: They got their 4% yearly pay increases. They bought their Mustangs and Acuras and their 1,200-square-foot townhouses. They appeared to be content and lived the expectant life preordained by society. They were normal and I wasn’t.

then came the failures and the goofy jobs. I begged patience and pleaded that wealth creation for a Fastlane entrepreneur operates under an exponential scale—those who hold jobs operate under a linear scale. Unfortunately, it didn’t matter how great my charts and diagrams were; mom lost faith and I didn’t blame her.

Sometimes clarity washes over you like a peaceful breeze and other times it hits you over the head like a falling Steinway piano. For me, it was the latter. A sharp declaration overpowered my brain: “You cannot live another day like this!” If I was going to survive, I needed to change.

While my new friends were out drinking and partying, I was hunkered down in my tiny apartment, regurgitating code. I didn’t know if it was Thursday or Saturday, and it didn’t matter. The glory of the hard work was this: It didn’t feel like work; in fact, I enjoyed it. I didn’t have a job; I had a passion to make a difference. Thousands of people benefited from something I created, which addicted me to the process.

In hindsight, I wanted to prove to myself that I wasn’t just some lucky chap who got caught up in the dot-com boom. I continued to improve my Web site. I integrated new technologies and listened to customers. My new passion was automation and process.

Millionaires Are Forged by Process, Not by Events All self-made multimillionaires create their wealth by a carefully orchestrated process.

Wealth eludes most people because they are preoccupied with events while disregarding process. Without process, there is no event.

Process is the road trip to wealth: The destination shines as an event, but it’s found by process. Yes, the elevator to success is out-of-order—you'll need to hit the stairs.

The Fastlane process demands sacrifices that few make, to resolve to live like few can.

Wealth is found with a roadmap, not a dartboard.

Your current financial situation is a product of your existing roadmap, whether chosen or not. Your roadmap guides your actions, and the consequences of those actions have created your financial life.

The Sidewalk is the plan most followed, a contract for a pleasurable today in lieu of a more secure tomorrow.

A Sidewalker exists in a state of one-something-from-broke: One album failure from broke. One business deal from broke. One gig from broke. One layoff from broke. On the Sidewalk, you’re always “one something” from being homeless, bankrupt, or back living in your parent’s basement.

Wealth is the ability to fully experience life. ~ Henry David Thoreau

Wealth is the ability to fully experience life. ~ Henry David Thoreau

Wealth is strong-spirited familial relationships with people. Not just your family, but with people, your community, your God, and your friends. At the end of the iconic movie It’s A Wonderful Life we’re given the final lesson: “Remember,

Wealth is strong-spirited familial relationships with people. Not just your family, but with people, your community, your God, and your friends. At the end of the iconic movie It’s A Wonderful Life we’re given the final lesson: “Remember, no man is a failure who has friends.”

Money can’t buy happiness, but it can make you awfully comfortable while you’re being miserable.

People who declare, “Money doesn’t buy happiness” have already concluded they will never have money.

People who declare, “Money doesn’t buy happiness” have already concluded they will never have money.

fact is, these analyses fall short because they don’t isolate the real thief of happiness: servitude, the antithesis of freedom.

The irony is that when most people earn “more money,” it doesn’t add freedom, it detracts.

Debt and Lifestyle Servitude keeps people bound to work and unbound to relationships.

A 2003 World Value Survey (worldvaluessurvey.com) found that the happiest people in the world have a tight sense of community and strong family bonds.

there are many millionaires and well paid career folks who are absolutely miserable, and it has nothing to do with the money. It has to do with their freedom. Money owns them, instead of them owning their money.

Why am I wealthy, versus the guy stuck in morning traffic driving to work? I have freedom. I wake up and do what I want. I pursue dreams. I write this book without worrying about how many will sell. I hop a plane to Las Vegas for two weeks without worrying about jobs, bosses, or unpaid electric bills. Freedom is fantastic.

Sidewalkers are embroiled in Lifestyle Servitude, where life is forced into a rat race, a constant tug-of-war between lifestyle extravagances and work, a self perpetuating merry-go-round of work for income, income for lifestyle, and lifestyle for work. Wherever there’s Lifestyle Servitude, there’s a systematic erosion of freedom.

didn’t take long for me to realize that my dream car wasn’t an icon of wealth, but a parasite that fed on my freedom.

It didn’t take long for me to realize that my dream car wasn’t an icon of wealth, but a parasite that fed on my freedom.

If You Think You Can Afford It —You Can’t Think about the last time you bought a pack of gum. Did you fret over the price? Did you ask, “Hmmm, can I afford this?” Probably not.

The consequence of instant gratification is the destruction of freedom, health, and choice.

Sure, my home declined in value but that’s OK because I don’t use my home as a wealth tool! Yet the gurus say “your home is your greatest investment!” Baloney!

line from Star Wars, slightly modified, “Who’s the idiot, the

“Who’s the idiot, the idiot himself or the idiot that hires the idiot?”

You deserve. Seriously, what do these people really deserve? Your credit sucks, you don’t pay your bills on time, and you deserve a better life? Grandma rear-ends your car and suddenly you deserve a large cash award from some rich insurance company? You buy a house you can’t afford and now you deserve a lower rate? How does “deserving” suddenly come so easy with no particular effort, like an event raining from the heavens? We’re being methodically brainwashed to believe that we deserve everything without obedience to process, or accountability.

Seriously, what do these people really deserve? Your credit sucks, you don’t pay your bills on time, and you deserve a better life? Grandma rear-ends your car and suddenly you deserve a large cash award from some rich insurance company? You buy a house you can’t afford and now you deserve a lower rate? How does “deserving” suddenly come so easy with no particular effort, like an event raining from the heavens? We’re being methodically brainwashed to believe that we deserve everything without obedience to process, or accountability.

Seriously, what do these people really deserve? Your credit sucks, you don’t pay your bills on time, and you deserve a better life? Grandma rear-ends your car and suddenly you deserve a large cash award from some rich insurance company? You buy a house you can’t afford and now you deserve a lower rate? How does “deserving” suddenly come so easy with no particular effort, like an event raining from the heavens? We’re being methodically brainwashed to believe that we deserve everything without obedience to process, or accountability.

Seriously, what do these people really deserve? Your credit sucks, you don’t pay your bills on time, and you deserve a better life? Grandma rear-ends your car and suddenly you deserve a large cash award from some rich insurance company? You buy a house you can’t afford and now you deserve a lower rate? How does “deserving” suddenly come so easy with no particular effort, like an event raining from the heavens? We’re being methodically brainwashed to believe that we deserve everything without obedience to process, or accountability.

The Slowlane is a lifetime wager that a sacrificial today will yield a wealthier tomorrow.

The Slowlane is rarely challenged. It’s a lie so deceiving that when the ruse is uncovered, decades of life have passed . . . meanwhile, millions more are being newly indoctrinated to the deception.

Wealth is best lived young and enjoyed while you have health, vibrancy, energy, and yes, maybe even some hair.

The global recession has exposed the Slowlane for the fraud it is. With no job, the plan fails. When the stock market loses 50% of your savings, the plan fails. When a housing crisis erases 40% of your illiquid net worth in one year, the plan fails.

This experiment, conducted by the Washington Post, uncovers something incredibly powerful—and disturbing. Not even the greatest musician in the world can illuminate the blinding depths of the rat race and those entrenched by its indifference.

This experiment, conducted by the Washington Post, uncovers something incredibly powerful—and disturbing. Not even the greatest musician in the world can illuminate the blinding depths of the rat race and those entrenched by its indifference.

This story exposes the Slowlane for its contempt: When you trade your life mindlessly for a paycheck, you risk being blinded to life itself as you cursively walk by it in a busy train station. Life does not begin on Friday night and end Monday morning.

Saturday and Sunday is the paycheck for Monday through Friday,

On Friday, people are paid FREEDOM in the currency of Saturday and Sunday!

Hopefully you recognize that five of anything in exchange for two is a bad return. The 5-for-2 return on investment is a negative 60%. If you make consistent negative 60% return on investments, you’d go bankrupt quick.

Kids grow on Mondays and Tuesdays. I’ve heard they grow on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays too. Yes, they don’t wait for the weekend to grow up. When little Miranda speaks her first word, walks her first walk, dances the first dance, she doesn’t care if you’re in Houston for the quarterly manager’s meeting. Kids and relationships don’t wait for the weekend to grow, and while you’re out trading 5-for-2, guess what—the kids get older and so do you.

By working faithfully 8 hours a day, you may eventually get to be the boss and work 12 hours a day.

Yet, my peers salivated at the opportunity of having a nice base salary, a great 401(k), and a top-tier health plan. No thanks. If I’m cold-calling out of the damn phonebook, it won’t be for my boss, but for me.

If I’m cold-calling out of the damn phonebook, it won’t be for my boss, but for me.

If you want to escape the Slowlane, find wealth and freedom fast, you’ve got to dump the job.

Here are six sucky reasons your financial plan shouldn’t revolve around a job, the nucleus to the Slowlane.

you’re shackled to a job, you’re engaged to a glorified exchange of your time (your life) for pieces of paper that grant you freedom. You

Suckage #1: To Trade Time Is to Trade Life Who taught us that trading time in

Experience comes from what you do in life, not from what you do in a job. You don’t need a job to get experience.

If the momentum of your financial road trip can be road blocked by a pink slip, you’re gambling. You aren’t being real; you’re being foolish. There is neither safety nor security in a job.

Suckage #5: A Subscription to “Pay Yourself Last” “Pay yourself first” is a Slowlane doctrine. The problem is that it’s near impossible in a job. Local, state, and federal governments heavily tax earned income and your options to shield that income from taxation is limited to contributions to 401(k)s and IRAs—which are also limited—10% of your income or a maximum of $16,500, whichever is less. If you diligently trade your life and ascend into corporate management, expect 50% of your money to disappear before it touches your hands. As an employee, you immediately receive a subscription to “pay yourself last,” and yes, that subscription arrives even if you don’t subscribe. If you are paying yourself last and everyone gets your money

Suckage #5: A Subscription to “Pay Yourself Last” “Pay yourself first” is a Slowlane doctrine. The problem is that it’s near impossible in a job. Local, state, and federal governments heavily tax earned income and your options to shield that income from taxation is limited to contributions to 401(k)s and IRAs—which are also limited—10% of your income or a maximum of $16,500, whichever is less. If you diligently trade your life and ascend into corporate management, expect 50% of your money to disappear before it touches your hands. As an employee, you immediately receive a subscription to “pay yourself last,” and yes, that subscription arrives even if you don’t subscribe. If you are paying yourself last and everyone gets your money first, don’t expect to build wealth fast.

Suckage #5: A Subscription to “Pay Yourself Last” “Pay yourself first” is a Slowlane doctrine. The problem is that it’s near impossible in a job. Local, state, and federal governments heavily tax earned income and your options to shield that income from taxation is limited to contributions to 401(k)s and IRAs—which are also limited—10% of your income or a maximum of $16,500, whichever is less. If you diligently trade your life and ascend into corporate management, expect 50% of your money to disappear before it touches your hands. As an employee, you immediately receive a subscription to “pay yourself last,” and yes, that subscription arrives even if you don’t subscribe. If you are paying yourself last and everyone gets your money first, don’t expect to build wealth fast.

Used correctly, “compound interest” is a powerful ally to wealth; used as prescribed by the Slowlane, and it dredges the wealth road trip to a crawl. Why? Again, the puzzle is solved if you exploit the math—the answer plays sibling to why a job won’t make you rich: TIME.

Used correctly, “compound interest” is a powerful ally to wealth; used as prescribed by the Slowlane, and it dredges the wealth road trip to a crawl. Why? Again, the puzzle is solved if you exploit the math—the answer plays sibling to why a job won’t make you rich: TIME.

Wealth creation via compound interest requires the passing of time and lots of it.

A Slowlane guru preaches that a $10,000 investment grown at 15% will be worth over $2.5 million dollars in 40 years!!! Hooray!!! What don’t they tell you? They don’t tell you that a 15% return year-after-year is impossible unless you invest with Bernie Madoff or Charles Ponzi. They don’t tell you that in 40 years you’ll be dead, and if you’re not, you’ll be close. They don’t tell you that in 40 years, your $2.5 million will likely be worth $250,000 in today’s dollars and that a gallon of milk will cost $12.00. They don’t tell you that this method of wealth acceleration is not what they use.

Why Mutual Funds and 401(k)s Won’t Make You Rich

The people in the room were Slowlane success stories. They used time to accelerate wealth, and what it got them was old age.

Have you ever met a college student who got rich investing in mutual funds or his employer’s 401(k)? How about the guy who bought municipal bonds in 2006 and retired in 2009? I wonder if that guy driving a $1.2-million car can because of his well-balanced portfolio of mutual funds? These people don’t exist because the youthful rich are not leveraging 8% returns but 800%! Has your wealth ever grown by 800% in one year? Probably not, but guess what? MINE HAS because I’m not shackled to the Slowlane wealth equation. My wealth acceleration vehicle doesn’t come from the stock market!

Have you ever met a college student who got rich investing in mutual funds or his employer’s 401(k)? How about the guy who bought municipal bonds in 2006 and retired in 2009? I wonder if that guy driving a $1.2-million car can because of his well-balanced portfolio of mutual funds? These people don’t exist because the youthful rich are not leveraging 8% returns but 800%! Has your wealth ever grown by 800% in one year? Probably not, but guess what? MINE HAS because I’m not shackled to the Slowlane wealth equation. My wealth acceleration vehicle doesn’t come from the stock market!

Salary @ $150,000/yr, save $7,500/year, invested over 40 yrs @ 8% = $2,177,132 Don’t get enamored with the numbers. Keep in mind this is 40 YEARS from now. If you are 20 years old, you will be 60 years old. If you are 30 years old, you will be 70 years old. If you are 40 years old, you’ll be dead. Sorry, but that’s beyond life expectancy. So at these ages, does this money and the freedom it buys sound appealing? Also, do you realize that this money will have 50% of today’s buying power? Forty years ago you could buy a car for $3,000 and a loaf of bread for 20 cents. Lest we not forget the other lofty assumptions, gainful employment and a robust economy that behests a safe 8% per year. In 2008 the markets lost 50%. I guess the gurus forgot to mention these anomalies.

Typically, a formal college education is used to serve Slowlane purposes—an explicit attempt to raise intrinsic value. Fight that intrinsic value variable!

While the Sidewalker deals with “Lifestyle Servitude,” the Slowlaner wrestles with “Education Servitude” (freedom eroded by education) that traps the victim to a job.

There was a time when a fool and his money were soon parted, but now it happens to everybody.

There was a time when a fool and his money were soon parted, but now it happens to everybody.

What makes me different is this: The Fastlane concepts in this book gave me financial independence. I already have financial freedom—the nice house, the sports cars, and the flashy rapper credit card. I don’t need this book to get me these things.

On a Slowlane financial radio show, a caller sought advice: In a few months the recession destroyed more than 50% of her savings, which had taken her nearly 11 years to accumulate. The Slowlane guru’s advice? A palliative “Stick to the plan.” Recommit. Rebuild.

On a Slowlane financial radio show, a caller sought advice: In a few months the recession destroyed more than 50% of her savings, which had taken her nearly 11 years to accumulate. The Slowlane guru’s advice? A palliative “Stick to the plan.” Recommit. Rebuild.

“Your home is an asset!” Capital BS. The Slowlane HOPES that real estate values always rise, and it’s patently false. In 2008, the value of my home equity plummeted $800,000. I disavow my home as an investment and, thankfully, I do not rely on it.

The Slowlane HOPES your “delayed gratification” moves to “no gratification.”

Frustrated Slowlaners often revert to the Sidewalk. Why? Hope over control. When you can’t control time, when you can’t control your job, when you can’t control five days of your life each week, you feel powerless. Emotions of helplessness create an environment ripe for instant gratification and Lifestyle Servitude. A study published in 2008 by the Journal of Consumer Research found that when people feel powerless and out of control, they have a strong desire to buy things that convey a high status.

a Slowlaner will try to manipulate his weak mathematical universe by trying to make the variables malleable. Manipulate intrinsic value by increasing hours worked. (I need to make more money!) Manipulate intrinsic value by changing jobs or adding jobs. (I need to get paid more!) Manipulate intrinsic value by going back to school. (I need a better career!) Manipulate compound interest by seeking better investment yields. (I need better investments!) Manipulate compound interest by expanding investment time horizon.

a Slowlaner will try to manipulate his weak mathematical universe by trying to make the variables malleable. Manipulate intrinsic value by increasing hours worked. (I need to make more money!) Manipulate intrinsic value by changing jobs or adding jobs. (I need to get paid more!) Manipulate intrinsic value by going back to school. (I need a better career!) Manipulate compound interest by seeking better investment yields. (I need better investments!) Manipulate compound interest by expanding investment time horizon. (I need more time!) Manipulate compound interest by increasing the investment. (I need to save more!)

a Slowlaner will try to manipulate his weak mathematical universe by trying to make the variables malleable. Manipulate intrinsic value by increasing hours worked. (I need to make more money!) Manipulate intrinsic value by changing jobs or adding jobs. (I need to get paid more!) Manipulate intrinsic value by going back to school. (I need a better career!) Manipulate compound interest by seeking better investment yields. (I need better investments!) Manipulate compound interest by expanding investment time horizon. (I need more time!) Manipulate compound interest by increasing the investment. (I need to save more!)

a Slowlaner will try to manipulate his weak mathematical universe by trying to make the variables malleable. Manipulate intrinsic value by increasing hours worked. (I need to make more money!) Manipulate intrinsic value by changing jobs or adding jobs. (I need to get paid more!) Manipulate intrinsic value by going back to school. (I need a better career!) Manipulate compound interest by seeking better investment yields. (I need better investments!) Manipulate compound interest by expanding investment time horizon. (I need more time!) Manipulate compound interest by increasing the investment. (I need to save more!)

When a Slowlaner wants to make more money, he increases his hours worked, switches to a better paying job, or adds jobs.

If my income increased by 100%, expenses only grew by 10%. I didn’t accumulate wealth because of expense dickery. Income explosion and expense control created wealth.

So what happens when a Slowlaner commits to the expense variable? Life becomes about what you can’t do. You can’t take that trip. You can’t buy your kids a decent pair of shoes. You can’t own a dream car. You can’t subscribe to the movie channels. Yes, the good old “sacrifice your today for the promise of tomorrow.” You settle.

Sadly, in today’s terms, a “millionaire” (net worth of $1,000,000) is simply upper middle class. A millionaire is not rich. Five million is the old one million.

12 Distinctions Between Slowlane and Fastlane Millionaires Slowlane millionaires make millions in 30 years or more. Fastlane millionaires make millions in 10 years or less. Slowlane millionaires need to live in middle-class homes. Fastlane millionaires can live in luxury estates. Slowlane millionaires have MBAs. Fastlane millionaires hire people with MBAs. Slowlane millionaires let their assets drift by market forces. Fastlane millionaires control their assets and possess the power to manipulate their value. Slowlane millionaires can’t afford exotic cars. Fastlane millionaires can afford to drive whatever they want. Slowlane millionaires work for their time. Fastlane millionaires have time working for them. Slowlane millionaires are employees. Fastlane millionaires hire employees. Slowlane millionaires have 401(k)s. Fastlane millionaires offer 401(k)s. Slowlane millionaires use mutual funds and the stock market to get rich. Fastlane millionaires use them to stay rich. Slowlane millionaires let other people control their income streams. Fastlane millionaires control their income streams. Slowlane millionaires are cheap with money.

12 Distinctions Between Slowlane and Fastlane Millionaires Slowlane millionaires make millions in 30 years or more. Fastlane millionaires make millions in 10 years or less. Slowlane millionaires need to live in middle-class homes. Fastlane millionaires can live in luxury estates. Slowlane millionaires have MBAs. Fastlane millionaires hire people with MBAs. Slowlane millionaires let their assets drift by market forces. Fastlane millionaires control their assets and possess the power to manipulate their value. Slowlane millionaires can’t afford exotic cars. Fastlane millionaires can afford to drive whatever they want. Slowlane millionaires work for their time. Fastlane millionaires have time working for them. Slowlane millionaires are employees. Fastlane millionaires hire employees. Slowlane millionaires have 401(k)s. Fastlane millionaires offer 401(k)s. Slowlane millionaires use mutual funds and the stock market to get rich. Fastlane millionaires use them to stay rich. Slowlane millionaires let other people control their income streams. Fastlane millionaires control their income streams. Slowlane millionaires are cheap with money. Fastlane millionaires are cheap with time. Slowlane millionaires use their house for net worth. Fastlane millionaires use their house for residency.

Money Perception: Money is everywhere, and it’s extremely abundant. Money is a reflection of how many lives I’ve touched. Money reflects the value I’ve created.

Primary Wealth Accelerator: I make something from nothing. I give birth to assets and make them valuable to the marketplace. Other times, I take existing assets and add value to them.

financial freedom via the Fastlane Roadmap is like an industrial revolution for wealth. The default road to wealth is manual labor, a fight against time and intrinsic value. The rapid road to wealth is to industrialize the wealth process, to systematize it like our ancestors systematized production.

After eight years, Chuma finishes his pyramid at age 26: three years to build the system and five years to reap the benefits of the system.

The Fastlane Is a Business System: The Slowlane Is a Job

In the Slowlane, you are the source of heavy lifting, while in the Fastlane, you construct a system that does it for you.

A man wrapped up in himself makes a very small bundle.

From the day you were born, you were baptized to play for Team Consumer, from the Barbie Doll and the Tonka Truck to the Star Wars action figures. You’ve been conditioned to demand: to want products, to need products, to buy products,

Decoding the Fastlane roadmap is as simple as joining the team that is custodian to the decryption key. The winning team is Team Producer. Reshape life’s focus on producing, not consuming.

Applied, this means instead of buying products on TV, sell products. Instead of digging for gold, sell shovels. Instead of taking a class, offer a class. Instead of borrowing money, lend it. Instead of taking a job, hire for jobs. Instead of taking a mortgage, hold a mortgage. Break free from consumption, switch sides, and reorient to the world as producer.

Applied, this means instead of buying products on TV, sell products. Instead of digging for gold, sell shovels. Instead of taking a class, offer a class. Instead of borrowing money, lend it. Instead of taking a job, hire for jobs. Instead of taking a mortgage, hold a mortgage. Break free from consumption, switch sides, and reorient to the world as producer.

I watch infomercials not to buy, but to see what the pros are doing.

As producers, our job is to entice consumers to buy.

As producers, our job is to entice consumers to buy.

To consume richly, produce richly first.

To switch teams and become a producer, you need to be an entrepreneur and an innovator. You need to be a visionary and a creator. You need to give birth to a business and offer the world value.

To switch teams and become a producer, you need to be an entrepreneur and an innovator. You need to be a visionary and a creator. You need to give birth to a business and offer the world value.

A business does not make a Fastlane—some businesses are jobs in disguise.

almost all pentamillionaires made their fortunes in a big lump sum after a period of years. Worth repeating: a big lump sum, not “by saving 10% of his paycheck for 40 years.”

Time is the coin of your life. It is the only coin you have, and only you can determine how it will be spent. Be careful, lest you let other people spend it for you.

She was wrong. Money grows on trees if you own a money tree. And, you can own one if you know how and where to get the seeds. Money trees are business systems that survive on their own. They require periodic support and nurturing but survive on their own, creating a surrogate for your time-for-money trade.

Money grows on trees if you own a money tree. And, you can own one if you know how and where to get the seeds. Money trees are business systems that survive on their own. They require periodic support and nurturing but survive on their own, creating a surrogate for your time-for-money trade.

Rental Systems Computer/Software Systems Content Systems Distribution Systems Human Resource Systems

The Five Fastlane Business Seedlings

Rental Systems Computer/Software Systems Content Systems Distribution Systems Human Resource Systems

Dan Brown has sold over 80 million copies of the DaVinci Code in 51 languages. Let me be perfectly clear: If you sell 80 million of ANYTHING, you will be a very rich human being.

To make this idea a successful business, it would have required at least two-dozen people on payroll at all times. That stopped me cold and I didn’t pursue it further. I wasn’t willing to risk trading passivity for a human resource system that is unpredictable and difficult to manage.

subtract to passivity. Human resource systems are the most expensive to manage and implement.

Human resource systems can add or subtract to passivity. Human resource systems are the most expensive to manage and implement.

The best money tree inexistence sits right in your pocketbook: The good old-fashioned buck. Yes, money. Money is the king of money trees. How is money passive? If you have a lot of money, you’re given the gate key to switch teams from consumer to producer. Specifically, you move from borrower to lender. You move from employee to employer. You move from customer to owner. In other words, people pay you to use YOUR MONEY in the form of interest or ownership.

Money is your army. The more you have, the more they will fight for freedom.

Slowlaners (the middle-class) use compound interest to get wealthy while Fastlaners (the rich) use it to create income and liquidity.

Compound interest pays my bills. It’s my tool. It’s my passive income source. Yet, compound interest is not responsible for my wealth.

Try not to become a man of success, but a man of value.

Affect millions and make millions.

Scale creates millionaires. Magnitude creates millionaires. Scale and magnitude creates billionaires.

If you want to get rich via intrinsic value, you must do it via the Law of Effection. Get into a position to impact millions. Become indispensable and irreplaceable like an athlete, entertainer, or a top-brass executive.

your primary income source comes from a job, your ability to pay yourself first is paralyzed because the governments are paid first!

If your primary income source comes from a job, your ability to pay yourself first is paralyzed because the governments are paid first! For “pay yourself first” to be legitimate, you truly need to pay yourself first in infinite amounts and the government last. You must own your vehicle.

Like many entrepreneurs, I made the horrific mistake of getting into business as a sole proprietor. Any “adviser” who recommends a business structure as a sole proprietorship or general partnership should be avoided like an airport toilet. These entities are risky because they don’t protect you and catapult unlimited liability onto you and your personal assets. If you’re a plumber organized as a sole proprietor and you accidentally leave a pipe cutter at a client’s house and the client’s three-year-old kills himself with it, guess what? They’re coming after you because you chose an ill-protected business entity. Instead of suing a corporation, they sue you and everything you own is up for grabs. The best business structures for your Fastlane business are: C corporation S corporation Limited liability corporation Each has its advantages and disadvantages, but all share two common benefits: limitation of liability and tax efficiency.

you’re a plumber organized as

If you’re a plumber organized as a sole proprietor and you accidentally leave a pipe cutter at a client’s house and the client’s three-year-old kills himself with it, guess what? They’re coming after you because you chose an ill-protected business entity. Instead of suing a corporation, they sue you and everything you own is up for grabs.

For small startups, I recommend either an LLC or an S corp. Stay away from partnerships and sole-proprietorships, as they do not limit liability.

market, he accepts the loan. He doesn’t read the

I didn’t force you to pick up this book and read it. You chose to. Yes, you are exactly where you decide to be. And if that’s unhappiness, you need to start making better choices.

denies choice and gives it to someone else—the company, the boss, the stock market, the economy, and a whole host of others.

Why do I hate the Slowlane? Because it denies choice and gives it to someone else—the company, the boss, the stock market, the economy, and a whole host of others.

The choice to squander college because your parents paid for

The choice to squander college because your parents paid for it.

Treasonous choices are actions that do irreparable harm to your life, your dreams, and your goals. The consequences of treasonous choices throw life onto unintended detours and hazardous roads that are difficult to escape and oftentimes, permanent.

market, he accepts the loan. He doesn’t read the

Your life’s steering wheel is a dangerous weapon. Three inches is all it takes. Jerk your life’s wheel three tiny inches while speeding and you can steer your life onto a path of no return, or worse, smack into a concrete wall. Like an automobile’s steering wheel, your choices are super-sensitive.

poverty and wealth. When you make minor permutations (choices) that deviate from your initial conditions, profound effects transpire over time.

Can you make a choice this instant that can forever alter the trajectory of your future? You can, and it can be the difference between poverty and wealth. When you make minor permutations (choices) that deviate from your initial conditions, profound effects transpire over time.

you’re younger than 30, your choices are at peak horsepower because they are growing the thick branches of your choice tree. Time to put the pedal to the metal!

you’re younger than 30, your choices are at peak horsepower because they are growing the thick branches of your choice tree. Time to put the pedal to the metal!

If you’re younger than 30, your choices are at peak horsepower because they are growing the thick branches of your choice tree. Time to put the pedal to the metal!

If your world is canvassed with words like “never” and “can’t,” guess what? It’s true—you can’t and you never will! Is it possible to earn $1 million in one month? Sure it is, just ask the guy who does it. What makes his windshield different from yours? Good choices of perception translate into good choices of action.

You start making better choices using two strategies dependent on the decision’s gravity. Worse Case Consequence Analysis (WCCA) Weighted Average Decision Matrix (WADM)

WCCA asks you to answer three questions about every decision of consequence: What is the worst-case consequence of this choice? What is the probability of this outcome? Is this an acceptable risk?

Today is the starting line for the rest of your life. Yes, today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday.

Your past can be accelerative or treasonous. You choose the classification.

Go into a kindergarten class and ask the kids how many of them can sing. EVERY hand will go up. Fast-forward 13 years and ask the same class of seniors the same question. Only a few hands will go up. What changed? The kindergarten kids believed they could sing because no one had told them otherwise.

One of the telling elements of Sly’s success story was his resistance to getting a “normal” job. He mentioned that if he’d taken a corporate job, his dream would have died because he knew the gravity of a job was inescapable for him.

Time isn’t a commodity, something you pass around like a cake. Time is the substance of life. When anyone asks you to give your time, they’re really asking for a chunk of your life.

When life sucks, escapes are sought. I don’t need television because I invested my time into a real life worth living, not a fictitious escape that airs every Tuesday night at 8 p.m.

Fastlaners understand that time is the gas tank of life. When the gas tank runs dry, life ends. Time is the greatest asset you own, not money,

The greatest theft of all humanity is to act as if our time on this Earth is infinite when it isn’t.

You can relax with a cold beer on the couch because you paid for it earlier in the day with eight hours of indentured time. Indentured time becomes the ransom of your free time.

Everything we buy hasn’t one cost, but two: The actual dollar cost The free time transformed into indentured time.

Law of Chocolate Chip Cookies: If the cookies don’t get into the grocery cart, they don’t get home. And if they don’t get home, they don’t get in my mouth. And if they don’t get in my mouth, they don’t transform into belly fat.

Behind the tangled roots of poorness, you will find a poor valuation of free time, which breeds from bad choices.

Fastlaners are frugal with time, while Slowlaners are frugal with money.

Fastlaners regard time as the king of all assets.

The acquisition and application of knowledge will make you rich.

What idiot would pay $50,000 to attend a seminar? Many do.

Seminars can be great for education, but it has to be the right seminar, which is affordable and given by producers and experienced experts, not by professional, career public speakers.

If things seem under control, you are just not going fast enough.

Interest reads a book; commitment applies the book 50 times. Interest wants to start a business; commitment files LLC paperwork. Interest works on your business an hour a day Monday through Friday; commitment works on your business seven days a week whenever time permits. Interest leases an expensive car; commitment rides a bike and puts the money into your system. Interest is looking rich; commitment is planning to be rich.

There’s a profound difference between interest and commitment. Interest reads a book; commitment applies the book 50 times. Interest wants to start a business; commitment files LLC paperwork. Interest works on your business an hour a day Monday through Friday; commitment works on your business seven days a week whenever time permits. Interest leases an expensive car; commitment rides a bike and puts the money into your system. Interest is looking rich; commitment is planning to be rich.

The Law of Effection says to make millions you must impact millions.

Business opportunities are plentiful, and unfortunately most of them aren’t Fastlane roads. If you’re stuck in a retail store selling $10 haircuts, can you reasonably expect to serve millions? To make millions, you must serve millions

Entrepreneurs fail because they create businesses based on selfish premises, and selfish premises don’t yield profitable businesses; they lead directly into the 90% failure wastebasket. “I need a new income stream.” “I’m an expert in [blank] so I’ll do that.” “I read a ‘get rich’ book and it says to start a business.” Wrong. Wrong. And wrong.

Solve needs massively and money massively attracts.

Need something more concrete? No problem. Make 1 million people achieve any of the following: Make them feel better. Help them solve a problem. Educate them. Make them look better (health, nutrition, clothing, makeup). Give them security (housing, safety, health). Raise a positive emotion (love, happiness, laughter, self-confidence). Satisfy appetites, from basic (food) to the risqué (sexual). Make things easier. Enhance their dreams and give hope.

billionaire RJ Kirk was asked about the benchmark to his success. He replied, “It is for others to say whether I am useful or not.”

Fastlaners work unlike everyone else so they can live unlike anyone else. Take four years of hard work in exchange for 40 years of freedom. Unfortunately, most people take 40 years of hard work for four weeks of freedom, or however long their paid vacation time lasts.

“In a gold rush, don’t dig for gold, sell shovels!”

process? Real business startups are processes, not events. If you’re suddenly in business because you bought a distributor kit, or you completed an online form, you’re violating entry.

Is getting into business an event or a process? Real business startups are processes, not events. If you’re suddenly in business because you bought a distributor kit, or you completed an online form, you’re violating entry.

Founders of network marketing companies do spectacularly well because they know that people love events, and what better event is there than “Complete this application and you’re in business!” They leverage entry ease as an advantage.

When the plumber comes over to fix the toilet and raves about his three rental properties that have appreciated 15% in the last three months, it’s time to get out and stay out. When your personal trainer raves about his Internet stock portfolio that earned 40% in two months, it’s time to get out and stay out. When your truck driving cousin calls you and asks about investing in oil because it’s $150 a barrel, it’s time to get out and stay out.

Invest in Your Brand Only!

Thou shalt not invest in a needless business. Thou shalt not trade time for money. Thou shalt not operate on a limited scale. Thou shalt not relinquish control. Thou shalt not let a business startup be an event over process.

core activity of inventors is just taking something and improving or modifying it. Take something old and stale and make it better. Take an underexposed product, make it your own, and reintroduce it to the world. Take something unconventional and make it conventional.

Innovation is a dual challenged process: manufacture and distribution. Inventing a product that solves a need is half the battle; the other half is getting your invention into the hands of millions, which involves a variety of distribution channels: infomercial (sell via mass media), retail (sell to distributors and wholesalers), and direct marketing (sell via print media, postal mail, Internet).

The challenge of any authoring Fastlane is never the book or the words themselves. Some of the greatest books in the world go unread, while the mediocre stuff sells millions. The difference lies in marketing, public relations, and just good old-fashioned business know-how. Writing a book is not a business; selling the book is.

You’ve got a great idea, but someone is already doing it? So what. Do it better.

Poorly met needs are open roads when they often appear closed.

Don’t be tempted by a cold brew but be blinded to the chainsaw.

Swap your allegiances from consumer to producer.

—specifically, free time. Invest in activities that will grant free time. Avoid time thieves, such as parasitic debt that transfigures free time into indentured time. Invest time into a business system that can transform indentured time into free time. Make decisions with time as a key decision factor.

Time is the king asset of the Fastlane—specifically, free time. Invest in activities that will grant free time. Avoid time thieves, such as parasitic debt that transfigures free time into indentured time. Invest time into a business system that can transform indentured time into free time. Make decisions with time as a key decision factor.

The Law of Effection states, “The more people whose lives you affect in an environment you control, the more money you will make.” Impact millions and you will make millions. When you solve needs on a massive scale, money flows into your life. Money reflects value.

have a wife and two children to support and I can’t afford to quit my job. Where can I find time to go Fastlane? Time isn’t the issue—desire and passion are. You are deep in the trap because you have responsibilities. This is how the Slowlane wins and keeps you amenable to its plan. To break free, you need to commit and draw from an insatiable passion personal to you and your family. That passion will find you the time, whether it’s early mornings, late evenings, or on the weekends. Without burning passion, your desire manifests itself as only interest, and not commitment. Committed Fastlaners build wealth, while interested Fastlaners build excuses.

